README.md, before:

# dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter

D-Bus driver for Victron Cerbo GX / Venus OS for Huawei SUN 2000 inverters

## Purpose

This script is intended to help integrate a Huawei SUN 2000 inverter into the Venus OS and thus also into the VRM
portal.

I use a Cerbo GX, which I have integrated via Ethernet in the house network. I used the WiFi of the device to connect to
the internal WiFi of the Huawei Sun 2000. Note: No extra dongle is necessary! You can use the integrated Wifi,
which is actually intended for configuration with the Huawei app (Fusion App or Sun2000 App). The advantage is that no
additional hardware needs to be purchased and the inverter does not need to be connected to the Internet.

To further use the data, the mqtt broker from Venus OS can be used.

## Todo

- [x] better logging
- [x] enable read out of connected grid meters
- [x] allow override of GUI settings via config file
- [x] find out why the most values are missing in the view
- [x] repair modelname (custom name in config)
- [x] possibility to change settings via gui
- [x] fix Status path in DBus, shows all status codes possible instead of correct status
- [ ] alarm, state
- [ ] more values: temperature, efficiency
- [ ] clean code

Cooming soon

## Installation / Update

1. Download and run the installation / update script:

   ```bash
   wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kcbam/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/main/setup/install_or_update.sh | bash
   ```

   This will download the latest release and install it. If you want to install the development version, use:

   ```bash
   wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kcbam/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/main/setup/install_or_update.sh | bash -s dev
   ```

2. Edit the settings in the *V1* Remote Console under 'Settings -> PV inverters -> Huawei SUN2000'

   The driver will restart automatically, upon changes to the settings.

   If you can't change the settings via the GUI, you can override the settings via a config file by creating a file called `override_config.py`. Copy the `example_override_config.py` to `override_config.py` and adjust the values as needed. Note that this will override the settings in the GUI at any time and changing settings in the GUI will not have any effect.

## Debugging

If things don't work: check Modbus TCP Connection to the inverter

   `python /data/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/connector_modbus.py`

You can check the status of the service with svstat:

`svstat /service/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter`

It will show something like this:

`/service/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter: up (pid 10078) 325 seconds`

If the number of seconds is always 0 or 1 or any other small number, it means that the service crashes and gets
restarted all the time.

When you think that the script crashes, stop the service and start it directly from the command line:

`python /data/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter.py`

Also useful (note that you need to restart this often, as the "current" log file is rotated every few lines):

`tail -f /var/log/dbus-huaweisun2000/current | tai64nlocal`

### Stop the script

`svc -d /service/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter`

### Start the script

`svc -u /service/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter`

### Restart the script

If you want to restart the script, for example after changing it, just run the following command:

`sh /data/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/restart.sh`

## Uninstall the driver

Run

   ```bash
sh /data/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/uninstall.sh
rm -r /data/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/
   ```

## Examples

![VRM-01](img/VRM-01.png)

![VRM-02](img/VRM-02.png)

## Thank you

### Contributers

- DenkBrettl
- ricpax (Energy meter code)

### Used libraries

modified verion of <https://github.com/olivergregorius/sun2000_modbus>

### this project is inspired by

<https://github.com/RalfZim/venus.dbus-fronius-smartmeter>

<https://github.com/fabian-lauer/dbus-shelly-3em-smartmeter.git>

<https://github.com/victronenergy/velib_python.git>

Commit message:

Logging improved and fixed status code handling
- Use a private logger instead of the root logger
- Fix the handling of the status code
- Fix multiple typos
- Improve code for passing the static data
- Update README (todo list), CHANGELOG and VERSION

README.md, after:

# dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter

D-Bus driver for Victron Cerbo GX / Venus OS for Huawei SUN 2000 inverters

## Purpose

This script is intended to help integrate a Huawei SUN 2000 inverter into the Venus OS and thus also into the VRM
portal.

I use a Cerbo GX, which I have integrated via Ethernet in the house network. I used the WiFi of the device to connect to
the internal WiFi of the Huawei Sun 2000. Note: No extra dongle is necessary! You can use the integrated Wifi,
which is actually intended for configuration with the Huawei app (Fusion App or Sun2000 App). The advantage is that no
additional hardware needs to be purchased and the inverter does not need to be connected to the Internet.

To further use the data, the mqtt broker from Venus OS can be used.

## Todo

- [ ] Display alarm values
- [ ] more values: temperature, efficiency
- [ ] clean code
- [ ] If possible, identify the meter model (DDSU666-H or DTSU666-H) and serial number
- [ ] Make register set configurable so that more SUN2000 models can be supported
- [ ] Add support for multiple inverters
- [ ] Venus OS gui-v2 support

## Installation / Update

1. Download and run the installation / update script:

   ```bash
   wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kcbam/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/main/setup/install_or_update.sh | bash
   ```

   This will download the latest release and install it. If you want to install the development version, use:

   ```bash
   wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kcbam/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/main/setup/install_or_update.sh | bash -s dev
   ```

2. Edit the settings in the *V1* Remote Console under 'Settings -> PV inverters -> Huawei SUN2000'

   The driver will restart automatically, upon changes to the settings.

   If you can't change the settings via the GUI, you can override the settings via a config file by creating a file called `override_config.py`. Copy the `example_override_config.py` to `override_config.py` and adjust the values as needed. Note that this will override the settings in the GUI at any time and changing settings in the GUI will not have any effect.

## Debugging

If things don't work: check Modbus TCP Connection to the inverter

   `python /data/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/connector_modbus.py`

You can check the status of the service with svstat:

`svstat /service/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter`

It will show something like this:

`/service/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter: up (pid 10078) 325 seconds`

If the number of seconds is always 0 or 1 or any other small number, it means that the service crashes and gets
restarted all the time.

When you think that the script crashes, stop the service and start it directly from the command line:

`python /data/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter.py`

Also useful (note that you need to restart this often, as the "current" log file is rotated every few lines):

`tail -f /var/log/dbus-huaweisun2000/current | tai64nlocal`

### Stop the script

`svc -d /service/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter`

### Start the script

`svc -u /service/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter`

### Restart the script

If you want to restart the script, for example after changing it, just run the following command:

`sh /data/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/restart.sh`

## Uninstall the driver

Run

   ```bash
sh /data/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/uninstall.sh
rm -r /data/dbus-huaweisun2000-pvinverter/
   ```

## Examples

![VRM-01](img/VRM-01.png)

![VRM-02](img/VRM-02.png)

## Thank you

### Contributers

- DenkBrettl
- ricpax (Energy meter code)

### Used libraries

modified verion of <https://github.com/olivergregorius/sun2000_modbus>

### this project is inspired by

<https://github.com/RalfZim/venus.dbus-fronius-smartmeter>

<https://github.com/fabian-lauer/dbus-shelly-3em-smartmeter.git>

<https://github.com/victronenergy/velib_python.git>
